When it comes to really, really stupid
reporting by mainstream media
publications, the well runs kind of
deep. You've got the Penglin wet market
theory around CO's origins, the whole
Saddam Hussein had WMDs thing, the
suppression of the Hunter Biden laptop
story, calling Ivormech horse dewormer
when hundreds of millions of people take
it a year. I could go on for many days,
but the Wall Street Journal just
released an article called the Pentagon
disinformation that fueled America's UFO
mythology that truly takes the cake.
I have to say I agree with aspects of
the headline. The Pentagon is running a
UFO disinformation campaign. I think
this article is part of that
disinformation campaign.
One of the articles primary sources is
Susan Goff, whose own LinkedIn along
with independent sources confirms her
lead role in Booze Allen Hamilton's
psychological operations consulting
practice for the Department of Defense.
Her self-professed skills include
strategic communication and
psychological operations.
[Music]
In summary, this article says that UFOs
are entirely explained by two things.
Electromagnetic pulses or EMPs that the
American government secretly decided to
use on our own nuclear missiles and Air
Force hazing rituals. All right, you
little freshman [__]
Let's tackle the first one.
[Music]
Good afternoon. My name is Robert
Solace.
On March 24th, 1967, Robert Salis, a
first lieutenant stationed at Malmstrom
Air Force Base, said he received a call
from topside guards saying that they had
seen strange lights in the sky making
odd maneuvers.
The men are stationed in the missile
launch bunker 60 ft below ground. He
called back uh about 5 minutes later.
This time he was screaming into the
phone saying uh they're uh looking at an
object u a red glowing object hovering
just above our front gate. All 10
missiles were off alert. All 10 whole
flight was off alert. All red. Salace
even had a colleague present named Bob
Jameson who backed up his testimony on
record with Larry Kin. Is it possible
they just malfunctioned? That doesn't
happen. Very rarely does a missile
malfunction. much more rare would be two
at the same time, but never 10. In fact,
the guy who most thoroughly documents
the Malmstrom case in 1967 is the author
of the great book UFOs and nukes. His
name is Robert Hastings and he is the
authoritative chronicler of 167 Qcle
cleared nuclear base employees that have
all witnessed UFOs.
[Music]
Declassified US government documents and
witness testimony from former or retired
US military personnel confirmed beyond
any doubt the reality of ongoing UFO
incursions at nuclear weapons sites.
In many cases, these UFOs have tampered
with various nuclear sites across the
country. Strangely enough, Bob Hastings
figured out the connection between UFOs
and nuclear weapons because his father
was stationed at Malstrom Nuclear Base
in 1967.
In high school, Hastings worked as a
janitor there, and a radar operator who
took young Hastings under his wing
called the 16-year-old over to show him
that the base was actually tracking what
they called unknowns at the time. That's
the formal term for unidentified
objects. I saw five blips in the sort of
northeast quadrant of his radar scope.
A local truck driver in Montana and
police officer are also on record having
seen the UFO in the area. In 1993, a
missile technician named John Mills
stationed at Malmstrom also saw UFOs on
his way back to the base. When he
returned, officers there said the base
had been swarmed. There are tons of
sightings in and around Malmstrom. On
the UFO thing, I was working for the
Forest Service not too far from
Malmstrom Air Force Base. One day I was
up there in a Forest Service pickup
truck at a certain campground and uh I
was there and suddenly I look up and I I
say suddenly, it was just in the sky. I
became aware that it was up there and I
looked up. It was this huge spheroidal,
you know, but elliptical, not not a
perfect spheroid, like a saucer that was
turned partially on its side. These
occur to this day.
So anyways, this Wall Street Journal
reporter named Joel Shechman writes that
this was all a secret EMP or
electromagnetic pulse experiment seeing
if the US could shut down our own nukes
with people present. As if that's not
incredibly dangerous and reckless and
has any precedent. I think that Shman or
one of his sources is making this up.
There's even documentation from
Malmstrom Strategic Air Command itself
saying that they were extremely puzzled
around the event and that they had no
idea what was going on. They were so
puzzled that they paid Boeing to come
out and investigate what had happened.
Boeing was also puzzled.
So again, back to this idea that this
was a super secret EMP that no one knew
about and it was an EMP tested on our
own nuclear weapons with people present.
Bob Salace responded to this claim.
Quote unquote, "It would have been
irresponsible and unthinkable for the US
Air Force to jeopardize the operational
status of these weapons. The EMP
generator equipment would have involved
a prolonged installation process in
plain sight of our security team."
Again, this is the same security team
that expressed extreme fear to Robert
Salis due to the fact that a glowing red
object was hovering around the base and
making right angle turns. For whatever
reason, none of this testimony made it
into this article. But perhaps most
damningly, I mean, the real nail in the
coffin for this is that EMPs weren't
even a thing until the 70s, and no
documents have ever suggested that the
US has ever used them against our own
active nuclear weapons with people in
the vicinity. As my friend and
journalist Merrick von Renenamp
eloquently points out, as Merrick
tweeted, the Wall Street Journal is
suggesting that technicians somehow
moved a 60foot science experiment up to
the front gate of an alert missile
facility undetected and then they fried
the active nukes. This is a joke, right?
And then you have the fact that EMPs
don't usually do reversible damage. They
take out all electronics in their
vicinity. these missiles came back
online. Maybe you could argue that EMPs
can at times cause temporary downtime,
but we definitely didn't have the
ability to use EMPs this precisely
before they were even operational.
That's an insane claim that I don't even
think the Wall Street Journal would
pretend to defend. There are literally
no logs or records anywhere from
Malmstrom or any employees of that base
saying these missiles didn't come back
online. So, they didn't just take out 10
missiles with an EMP and then turn them
back on. That's extremely basic physics
that Sean Kirkpatre, a supposed
physicist and the head of Arrow, the all
domain anomalies resolution office, who
clearly spoonfed all of this bad
information to Joel Shechman, a man who
needs to up his factchecking game,
should know. Get up, you lazy little
[__] Get up.
Okay. Okay. And then you have this
second claim that the article makes that
air force hazing rituals explain
widespread UFO mythology. Can someone
please for the love of God explain
documents from the Air Force dating back
to 1949 discussing an emergency meeting
around UFOs and nukes taking place at
killing base camps with the Army CIC,
FBI, Office of Naval Intelligence, and
CIA present. this FBI document
discussing the same UFO and nuclear
connection or in 1947 General Nathan
Twining responsible for all aircraft
development in the Air Force at the time
saying that UFOs are not visionary or
fictitious. Tell me how debunking one
nuclear UFO related case in 1967
explains a town in Japan next to their
nuclear civilian grid in Fukushima where
the residents have frequent sightings
and are obsessed with UFOs or at Barello
Argentina next to their civilian grid
where a commercial pilot in 1995
literally couldn't land the plane due to
an outage and a UFO chasing his plane.
What about Bob Jacobs sighting in 1964
at Vandenberg where he was removed as a
government employee despite having
managed over 130 people? They denied
that he ever worked there until later
his superior, Major Mansman, admitted
that he did work there a couple decades
later. My officer efficiency reports are
in there. By the way, I've seen Bob
Jacobs DD214. He definitely worked at
Vandenberg. So Jacobs and all these
other nuclear base employees, Mario
Woods, all of these people that I've
interviewed have been hazed for 70 years
by our own government. For what?
They faked UFOs, harassed these people.
In Jacob's case, they blew up his
mailbox and [__] with him endlessly.
He gets a phone call one night. He and
his wife, the voice says, "Your mailbox
a light. What a beautiful sight. You're
going down, [__]
You know how we're always diving into
the edge of science and consciousness on
this show? Lately, I've been thinking a
lot about aging, not just in terms of
years, but in how it actually feels in
the body. Slower recovery, lower energy,
that middle-aged fog that sneaks up on
you. I feel like I can barely go out and
drink alcohol anymore. That's why I
started using something called
qualiaenolytic. And it's been a major
shift for me. Let me explain. As we age,
our bodies accumulate what scientists
call scineesscent cells, also known as
zombie cells. These are worn out cells
that stop dividing but don't die. They
hang around in your body, draining your
energy, clogging up your recovery, and
generally making you feel older than you
are. Qualioenolytic is a firstofits-kind
supplement formulated with nine
plant-based compounds designed to help
your body naturally eliminate these
zombie cells. It's not something you
take every day, just 2 days a month, but
it supports your body in aging better at
the cellular level. Since I've started
taking it, I felt sharper, lighter, and
like my body's resilience has come back
online. It's vegan, non-GMO, and
grounded in serious research. Experience
the science of feeling younger. Go to
qualia.com/jesse
for up to 50% off your purchase and use
code Jesse. Again, that's J E SS E for
an additional 15% off. That's qu a l i a
l i f.com/jessie
j sse for an extra 15% off your
purchase. Thanks so much to Qualia for
sponsoring this episode.
This is all sort of beautiful though.
The Wall Street Journal has really
backed themselves into a corner. I
suggest they either prove the existence
of these hazing programs in a follow-up
article because extraordinary claims
require extraordinary evidence or at the
very least they support what I'm about
to propose. A class action lawsuit under
the Federal Tour Claims Act. Every UFO
witness whose career has been
significantly disrupted for their
speaking out about this issue or mental
health has been disrupted by optical
illusions in the sky or whatever hazing
rituals this article is proposing should
be granted millions of dollars for being
hazed by our own government. David
Grush, who experienced serious reprisals
while in government and was dragged
through the mud at the National
Geospatial Agency, should receive a
large check in the mail. Surely we
should have some church committee style
hearings about these egregious acts
committed by our own government. And I'm
certain Joel Sheman and everybody else
involved in the writing of this article
would support that.
I'm not so sure they would. See, perhaps
this personal story is most telling and
indicative of where the Wall Street
Journal is really coming from. Last
year, my friend Carl Nell, Army
representative of the UAP task force,
who helped spearhead many of the Army's
most important tech modernization
efforts, wrote an op-ed intended for the
Wall Street Journal.
The opinion piece was co-authored by a
former cabinet member. You heard me
right, like presidential cabinet member.
The essay expressed a deep frustration
at the lack of transparency and civilian
oversight with UFO related programs in
government. Again, a cabinet member
co-authored this. Unless you think I'm
making this up, I'm not the only person
aware of this article besides Nell.
Senate Intelligence Committee staffer
Kirk McConnell, whose politics I don't
always agree with, is also fully clued
in about this opinion piece. And we also
have emails between Carl Nell and the
Wall Street Journal about it. It is a
fact that this article was written and
it was proposed for publication. But the
op-ed section refused to publish this
article for no apparent reason.
Serendipitously, I had just met a very
friendly vice president at News Corp,
which owns the Wall Street Journal. So,
I offered to help advocate for the
publication of this op-ed by getting an
introduction to one of the managing
editors of the Wall Street Journal's
opinion section. This woman was named
Lena Bell. She was very nice and
earnest, and I have no reason to believe
she cares about anything but the truth.
We had a great exchange. I even met her
in person at the Wall Street Journal
headquarters. I told her about my own
interest in the subject. I suggested
that it would be great if more
mainstream credentialed journalists were
interested. I even said that she should
read UFOs and Nukes by Robert Hastings
if she wanted to learn more about the
government's history with UFOs. We
followed up, but it seemed like she was
powerless in helping getting this
opinion piece published. there was some
undetectable dark matter at play
stopping this opinion piece from getting
published.
Just think about it. Even if you can't
fully verify that there's a hidden UFO
program, obviously that's a tall order.
Shouldn't a former cabinet member saying
anything about unidentified flying
objects immediately be worthy of
publication? Even if you then run a
story saying that that former cabinet
member is crazy. When I politely
expressed my confusion around this, I
was told something very telling. Lena
told me that a guy named David Spurggle
is their de facto adviser on UFOs. And
he says that UFOs are all space trash,
light reflections, and temperature
inversions. This is almost exactly what
past UFO debunkers like Don Menzel would
say in the ' 50s. First of all, the
objects are not unidentified. We know
what they are. Menzel happened to hold
extremely high clearances at the NSA,
CIA, and Navy. He was also caught
destroying astronomical records by
fellow astronomer Dorit Hofflight as she
documents in her biography. In 1953,
Donna Mensel also stopped the
astronomers at Harvard to carry out
their very famous sky survey where they
were monitoring the entire sky. He also
had apparently some more later episodes
of plate destruction, I've heard. But I
digress. Who is this David Spurggle? The
head of the Simons Foundation. Um, this
guy named uh Dr. David Spurggle. He was
uh tapped to be the chair of the NASA
UAP working group. Yeah. A working group
that sort of says, you know, nothing to
see here. Like we we'll keep an open
mind, but there's probably nothing here,
which I find interesting. Yeah. I mean,
I don't know. I have no smoking gun. It
just seems quite a curious set of
coincidences.
And you look at what else Jim Simons was
really engaged in, right? He set up the
Simons Foundation um which is probably
like one of the leading private sector
sources of philanthropic funding for
fundamental science research and his you
know guy running his his private
research foundation and fundamental
physics gets tapped to run the UAP
working group for NASA. Yeah. Weinstein
is is on Rogan actively speculating that
this is housing a sort of secret physics
program involving all the top
differential geometers in the US. What
do you think, Matthew? I mean, if such a
thing were to exist, that's exactly
where it would exist. Yeah. And who
knows, maybe Spurggle has nothing to do
with UFOs. Maybe the Wall Street Journal
genuinely believes the [__] about
EMPs they're promoting. But it's just so
weird to me that they've been working on
a UFO related story for months and
neglected to mention that a cabinet
member was involved in a UFO related
op-ed proposal that they received last
year.
So, bad faith acting, incompetence, I'll
let you decide. I'll just end on this
note. If UFOs are all just some fake
multi-deade long hazing ritual, then
nobody should have any issue with the
impending UAP Disclosure Act, who cares
if we have civilian oversight over
programs that don't exist. And hopefully
when the UAP Disclosure Act goes up for
vote again, Sean Kurpatre won't lobby
against it like he did last time. So on
that note, I'm linking a petition below
that you will hopefully all sign in
support of the UAP Disclosure Act. This
will ensure civilian congressional
oversight over UFOs and elect an elite
presidential board to help push
disclosure.
This Wall Street Journal article is
truly so bad that I am almost inclined
to believe it is a pro-UFFO conspiracy.
So please, Wall Street Journal, do
better next time. We need better
debunkers. I'm not anti-debunking.
There's plenty of [__] in UFO world,
a lot of which I cover. I'm just anti
bad lazy debunking. And if Joel Shman or
Sean Kirkpatre or Susan Gooff or any of
these people want to come on my show or
debate me in any context and discuss any
of this in a civil way, I'd be happy to
host them. Surely, it would help promote
this article. And if the article's
contents are true, they can back all
this stuff up. I suspect I won't hear
back about that invitation. And that's
probably the most frustrating thing
about these people. They only hit you
with these cheap shots from afar. They
never actually show up and meet you face
to face. So again, open invite. I've
also messaged Lena Bell expressing a
desire to write an op-ed rebuttal in the
Wall Street Journal. If she says yes,
I'll let Robert Hastings, Carl Nell,
David Grush, Merrick von Renincamp,
Michael Shelonburgger, and anyone else
contribute and co-author this paper with
me because surely the Wall Street
Journal wants that in the name of having
an open and honest Socratic debate.
Until next time for hopefully a more
aspirational and positive episode. I'm
Jesse Michaels and this is American
Alchemy.